# VEEDER PROJECT
We carried out this project to develop a better method of understanding and predicting vapor losses from underground gasoline storage tanks. Predicting these losses is of utmost importance to gasoline distributing companies in order to minimize both financial losses and the environmental impact of their stations. An analysis of current loss detection methods demonstrates that while these monitoring systems are somewhat effective, inadequacies in their modeling methods prevent companies from gaining an accurate understanding of what is happening in their storage tanks. We developed an algorithm based off of thermodynamic concepts to model the vapor and liquid levels inside an underground storage tank. Our algorithm was based off of the Rachford-Rice equation, which governs vapor liquid equilibrium in multiple component systems. We calculated the vapor and liquid volumes, as well as the composition of each, using this equation for a set of sample initial conditions. We then calculated these values for the data-set we were given and compared them to the measured values to ascertain the validity of the model. We determined that the model we developed was somewhat accurate in predicting the quantities of interest. While the model predicts the volume levels and composition with relative accuracy, it is poor at predicting the vapor levels in tanks. While the amount of vapor lost can be determined by the remaining volume, our model cannot accurately predict the composition of vapor, making it difficult to determine which parts of the gasoline mixture are being lost to the environment. While we have developed a relatively accurate base model to predict underground storage tank levels and losses, we can improve on this model further in order to increase the accuracy of vapor loss prediction. Incorporating activity coefficients to account for the non-ideal nature of the gasoline components will increase the accuracy of the model and make our algorithm more useful in predicting vapor losses. Accounting for supply and demand patterns will allow us to take into account environmental factors and give recommendations regarding storage levels in underground storage tanks, enabling us to develop a model in which users can understand the behavior of their underground storage tanks and gain insight in order to make decisions regarding their storage levels.
